Here are some common Software Testing interview questions and their answers

1. What is software testing?
	Software testing is the process of evaluating and verifying that a software application or system works as expected and is free from bugs or defects. 
	The main goal is to ensure the quality of the software by identifying errors and ensuring that the software functions as intended.

2. What is the difference between verification and validation in software testing?
	Verification is the process of evaluating work-products (such as code, design, or requirements) to ensure they are aligned with the specifications.
	Validation is the process of checking the actual product to ensure it meets the business needs or requirements.
	In simple terms, verification is about building the product right, while validation is about building the right product.

3. What are the different types of testing?  
There are many types of testing, including:
- Unit Testing: Testing individual components or units of code in isolation.
- Integration Testing: Testing the interaction between different system components.
- System Testing: Testing the entire system as a whole.
- Acceptance Testing: Verifying that the software meets the business requirements.
- Regression Testing: Checking that new changes have not negatively affected existing functionality.
- Smoke Testing: A preliminary test to check the basic functionality of an application.
- Performance Testing: Evaluating the performance, scalability, and stability under load.
- Security Testing: Identifying vulnerabilities and weaknesses in the software.
- Usability Testing: Ensuring that the software is user-friendly.

4. What is the difference between functional and non-functional testing?
- Functional Testing focuses on verifying that the software functions according to the requirements. It includes tests like unit tests, integration tests, and system tests.
- Non-Functional Testing assesses other aspects of the software like performance, security, usability, and scalability.

5. What is a test case?  
A test case is a set of conditions or variables under which a tester determines whether a software application is working correctly. It typically includes:
- Test Case ID
- Test Description
- Preconditions
- Test Steps
- Expected Result
- Actual Result
- Status (Pass/Fail)

6. What is the difference between a bug, defect, and an error?
- Error: A mistake made by the developer during coding.
- Defect: A flaw in the software that causes it to behave incorrectly.
- Bug: A defect in the software that prevents it from working as intended. In general, "bug" is used interchangeably with "defect."

7. What is regression testing?  
Regression testing is the process of testing a software system to ensure that new code changes (bug fixes or new features) have not adversely affected the existing functionality.
 It aims to detect side effects of code changes.

8. What is the difference between alpha and beta testing?  
- Alpha Testing: Conducted by developers or internal teams within the organization to detect bugs and issues before releasing the product to external users.
- Beta Testing: Conducted by real users outside the organization (external testers) to identify potential issues that were not found during alpha testing.

9. What is the purpose of smoke testing?  
Smoke testing is a preliminary level of testing performed to check if the basic functionalities of the software are working properly. 
If the smoke tests fail, the software is returned for fixes before further testing is done.

10. What is a test plan?  
A test plan is a detailed document that outlines the testing strategy, scope, resources, schedule, and activities involved in testing. 
It includes the objectives, testing approach, deliverables, and criteria for acceptance and completion of testing.

11. What is the difference between white-box testing and black-box testing?
- White-box Testing: Involves testing the internal structures, logic, and implementation of the code. The tester has knowledge of the code and uses this knowledge to design test cases.
- Black-box Testing: Focuses on testing the external behavior of the software without knowledge of its internal workings. Testers are concerned with whether the software meets user requirements.

12. What is exploratory testing?
Exploratory testing is an informal and unscripted type of testing where testers actively explore the application, 
learn about its behavior, and try to discover defects. It involves simultaneous learning, test design, and execution.

13. What is boundary value analysis?
Boundary value analysis is a testing technique that involves testing the boundary conditions of input values, 
as errors are more likely to occur at the boundaries rather than in the middle of input domains. For example, 
if input values range from 1 to 100, the boundary values would be 0, 1, 100, and 101.

14. What is equivalence partitioning?
Equivalence partitioning is a technique where the input data is divided into partitions or groups that are treated as equivalent. 
The idea is that if one value from a partition works correctly, other values from the same partition are likely to work as well.

15. What is the difference between a defect life cycle and a test life cycle?
- Defect Life Cycle: It refers to the various stages a defect goes through during its life, 
from identification to closure, which typically includes stages like New, Assigned, Open, Fixed, and Closed.
- Test Life Cycle: The series of phases that occur in testing, from test planning, test design, test execution, defect reporting, to test closure.

16. What is the difference between manual and automated testing?
- Manual Testing involves human testers who execute test cases manually without the help of automation tools. It’s useful for exploratory testing and subjective test cases.
- Automated Testing involves using automation tools and scripts to perform repetitive testing tasks. 
It’s efficient for regression testing, performance testing, and when tests need to be repeated multiple times.

17. What is a test strategy?
A test strategy is a high-level document that outlines the overall approach to testing, including the scope, 
testing techniques, resources, schedule, and deliverables. It sets the direction for testing and guides the testing process.

18. What is performance testing?
Performance testing assesses how well a software application performs under certain conditions. It includes:
- Load Testing: Checking how the system handles expected user loads.
- Stress Testing: Determining how the system behaves under extreme conditions.
- Scalability Testing: Verifying that the system can scale to handle increased load.
- Endurance Testing: Testing the system for prolonged periods to identify memory leaks or performance degradation.

19. What is a test environment? 
A test environment refers to the hardware, software, network configuration, and other elements necessary for executing test cases. 
It simulates the actual environment in which the software will run and allows testers to verify its behavior.

20. What is the role of a QA (Quality Assurance) engineer?  
A QA engineer ensures that the software meets the desired quality standards by designing, executing, and evaluating test cases. 
Their goal is to identify defects early, improve the software’s quality, and ensure it functions as intended across different environments and conditions.

1. What is Test Driven Development (TDD)? 
Test Driven Development (TDD) is a software development approach in which tests are written before the code itself. The cycle follows these steps:
- Write a Test: Start by writing a test that defines a function or improvement.
- Run the Test: Run the test and ensure that it fails (since the feature is not implemented yet).
- Write the Code: Write the minimal amount of code necessary to pass the test.
- Refactor the Code: Refactor the code to improve its structure while ensuring the test still passes.
- Repeat: Repeat the process for the next small feature.
TDD ensures that code is thoroughly tested and has fewer defects. It also encourages better design and documentation.

2. What is Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Testing (CT)?
- Continuous Integration (CI) is the practice of frequently integrating code changes into a shared repository, 
followed by automated builds and tests. It helps identify integration issues early and promotes quicker feedback.
- Continuous Testing (CT) extends this by running tests automatically during the development process. 
Automated tests are executed with every code change, ensuring immediate feedback on code quality.
Both CI and CT contribute to faster and more reliable software delivery.

3. What is a performance bottleneck, and how do you identify it?
A performance bottleneck is a point in the system where performance is limited due to insufficient resources or inefficient processing. 
Bottlenecks can occur at various layers: CPU, memory, disk, database, or network.
To identify a performance bottleneck:
- Profiling: Use profiling tools (like JProfiler, YourKit) to analyze CPU, memory, and thread usage.
- Load Testing: Use tools like JMeter or LoadRunner to simulate user load and identify response times and failure points.
- Database Profiling: Monitor SQL queries, database connections, and indexing using database profiling tools.
- Monitoring Tools: Use system monitoring tools (like New Relic, AppDynamics) to analyze the resource consumption and system performance.

4. What is the difference between white-box testing and gray-box testing? 
- White-box Testing involves testing the internal structures, logic, and implementation of the system. 
The tester has full access to the code and uses knowledge of the internal workings to design test cases. 
It includes techniques like code coverage, path testing, and control flow testing.
- Gray-box Testing combines elements of both white-box and black-box testing. 
The tester has partial knowledge of the internal workings of the application but still tests it from an external perspective. 
This type of testing helps identify security vulnerabilities and integration issues.

5. How do you perform load testing and stress testing?
- Load Testing measures the system's performance under normal and peak conditions. 
It involves simulating the expected number of users or transactions on the system and measuring its response time, throughput, and resource usage. 
Tools like Apache JMeter, LoadRunner, and Gatling are commonly used for load testing.  
Steps for Load Testing:
  - Define the test scenario (number of users, transactions).
  - Set up the load generation tools.
  - Execute the test under normal load conditions.
  - Monitor the system performance (CPU, memory, network usage).
- Stress Testing tests the system's behavior under extreme conditions beyond its expected limits. 
The goal is to identify the breaking point where the system fails or performance degrades significantly.
Steps for Stress Testing:
  - Gradually increase the load until the system fails.
  - Observe the system's failure mode and how it recovers after the overload is removed.

6. What is Mutation Testing, and why is it important?
Mutation Testing is a technique used to evaluate the effectiveness of test cases by intentionally introducing small changes (mutations) in the code. 
These mutations simulate faults, and the test suite's ability to detect them is assessed. If the test cases fail to catch the mutation, 
it indicates that the test suite is not robust enough.
Mutation testing is important because it provides a way to measure the quality of test cases and ensures that the tests are comprehensive enough to catch subtle bugs.

7. What is the difference between functional and non-functional requirements? 
- Functional Requirements describe the specific functionality the software must provide, such as inputs, outputs, operations, and user interactions. 
Examples include login functionality, payment processing, or data validation.
- Non-Functional Requirements describe the overall attributes and qualities of the system, like performance, scalability, security, usability, and availability. 
These requirements specify how the system performs the functions rather than what it does.

8. What is the concept of "Test Automation Pyramid"?
The Test Automation Pyramid is a concept that suggests how to structure automated tests in a balanced way:
- Unit Tests (Base of the Pyramid): The most numerous and smallest tests that test individual functions or methods in isolation.
- Service/Integration Tests (Middle Layer): Tests that ensure different components or services work together, typically focusing on the integration between modules.
- UI/End-to-End Tests (Top of the Pyramid): The least numerous but most complex tests that ensure the entire system works as expected from a user’s perspective.
The pyramid promotes writing more unit tests and fewer UI tests to achieve a faster and more maintainable test suite.

9. What is API testing, and how do you perform it?
API Testing verifies that APIs function as expected, by testing their functionality, reliability, performance, and security. 
It involves sending requests to the API endpoints and validating the response.
To perform API testing:
- Set up the test environment: Ensure the API is available and all necessary dependencies are in place.
- Send requests: Use tools like Postman, SoapUI, or cURL to send HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE).
- Validate responses: Check the response code, headers, body, and content type. Verify the response matches the expected behavior.
- Edge cases: Test with valid and invalid inputs, boundary values, and error cases.
- Security Testing: Ensure the API is secure, checking for vulnerabilities like unauthorized access and data leaks.

10. What is exploratory testing, and how does it differ from scripted testing?
Exploratory Testing is an unscripted and informal approach where testers explore the application and learn about its behavior to find defects. 
It involves the tester using their creativity and experience to discover areas that may not be covered in traditional test cases.
- Characteristics of Exploratory Testing:
  - Emphasis on tester creativity and intuition.
  - Flexible and dynamic with no predefined test cases.
  - Often used for early-stage testing, identifying unknown issues, or when documentation is scarce.
Scripted Testing is when testers follow predefined test cases with specific steps to validate the software. 
It is structured, repeatable, and focused on verifying known requirements or functionalities.

11. What is a "Test Harness"?
A Test Harness is a collection of software, tools, and data used to automate the execution of tests and evaluate the results. 
It is a framework that helps in the execution of automated tests by setting up the necessary environment, running the tests, and reporting the results. 
Test harnesses are often used in conjunction with automated testing tools to streamline the process.

12. What are the common challenges in test automation, and how do you overcome them?
Common challenges include:
- Flaky Tests: Tests that produce inconsistent results. To resolve this, ensure tests are stable, independent, and have clear setup/teardown steps.
- High Initial Cost: Writing automated tests requires investment in time and resources. A good strategy is to automate the most critical and high-risk areas first.
- Maintaining Test Scripts: Automated tests require ongoing maintenance as the application evolves. Use page object models (POM), modular test designs, and version control to manage changes more effectively.
- Complex Test Scenarios: Some tests, like UI testing, are complex to automate. Consider hybrid approaches (e.g., combining UI tests with API or unit tests).

Certainly! Here are some advanced interview questions specifically for an Automation Testing Engineer role, along with their detailed answers:

1. What is the difference between Selenium WebDriver and Selenium RC?
- Selenium RC (Remote Control): It was an older tool that allowed the automation of web applications by injecting JavaScript code into the web page. 
It required a separate server to be up and running. RC was slower and less efficient as it worked by sending commands to the browser through the server.
- Selenium WebDriver: WebDriver is a more powerful and modern tool for web application automation. 
It directly communicates with the browser, unlike Selenium RC, which required a middle layer. 
It’s faster and supports more browsers and frameworks. WebDriver is now the preferred choice for automation due to its simplicity and speed.

 2. How do you handle synchronization issues in Selenium WebDriver?
  
Synchronization issues occur when the test script is executing faster than the application, leading to errors such as attempting to click an element that is not yet visible. There are two main approaches to handle synchronization issues:
- Implicit Waits: Set a global wait time for all elements in the script. WebDriver will wait the specified time before throwing an exception if an element is not found.
  ```java
  driver.manage().timeouts().implicitlyWait(10, TimeUnit.SECONDS);
  ```
- Explicit Waits: Allows for more fine-grained control by waiting for a specific condition (like element visibility, element to be clickable, etc.) before proceeding. It's more efficient than implicit waits because it waits only as long as needed.
  ```java
  WebDriverWait wait = new WebDriverWait(driver, 10);
  WebElement element = wait.until(ExpectedConditions.visibilityOfElementLocated(By.id("element_id")));
  ```
- Fluent Wait: A variation of explicit waits where the polling frequency and timeout can be adjusted.

 3. What is Page Object Model (POM), and why is it important in test automation?
  
The Page Object Model (POM) is a design pattern in Selenium that promotes code reusability and maintainability by creating a separate class for each web page in your application. Each page object class contains methods that perform actions on the page (like clicking buttons, filling forms) and retrieve values from the page (like extracting text).

Benefits of POM:
- Maintainability: Changes in UI elements can be handled in one place (the page object class), reducing the need to modify test scripts.
- Reusability: Methods in page objects can be reused in multiple tests.
- Readability: Test scripts are cleaner and easier to understand because they focus only on the high-level steps of the test rather than interacting directly with UI elements.

 4. Explain how to implement data-driven testing in Selenium.
  
Data-driven testing is a technique where the same test is executed with multiple sets of input data. Selenium can perform data-driven testing using various data sources like Excel files, CSV files, or databases.

Q1. What is Automation Testing?
Sample Answer: Automation testing is a software testing method where the process of checking if the software works as expected is done automatically. It helps ensure the software meets its requirements before being released. This type of testing is essential for modern development practices like continuous testing, integration, and delivery. While it requires some manual work to create the initial test scripts, the rest of the process runs automatically, comparing actual results with expected ones.

Find and Apply Banner
Q2. What is a Test Environment?
Sample Answer: A test environment is the setup of hardware, software, and resources needed to execute test cases. It includes systems, applications, test data, databases, browsers, and network settings tailored to the requirements of the Application Under Test (AUT). This environment ensures testing closely resembles real-world conditions for accurate and effective results. 

Q3. Who should be responsible for Test Automation?
Sample Answer: The responsibility for test automation typically lies with an automation test engineer, also known as a test automation developer. Their main job is to design and create automated tests for both hardware and software systems during development. They focus on building tests that assess performance, functionality, and reliability. 

To do this well, they need strong skills in software development, programming, and testing methods. Their work is essential for improving testing efficiency, ensuring accuracy, and maintaining high-quality outcomes. Overall, automation test engineers help make the testing process smoother and more reliable.

Q4. When will you avoid Automation Testing?
Sample Answer: I will avoid automation testing in the following conditions:

Frequent Functionality Changes: Automated tests must be continuously updated to match evolving software functionality; outdated tests lose relevance.
Ineffective UI Bug Detection: Automation struggles with nuanced visual or behavioral UI issues, requiring manual testing or specialized tools.
Exploratory Testing Limitations: Automation lacks the adaptability needed for dynamic, intuition-driven exploratory testing.
Partial Automation Pitfalls: Automating only partially effective processes can waste resources.
Domain-Specific Randomization: Tests needing expertise or unpredictability often suit manual testing better.
Q5. What is Browser Automation?
Sample Answer: Browser automation is the use of tools and scripts to mimic human actions on a web browser for testing purposes. It automates tasks that would normally be done manually, making the testing process faster and more efficient. This method enables developers and testers to run tests, check if a web application is working properly, and spot issues quickly. 

By speeding up testing and ensuring consistent results, browser automation helps improve the development process, reduces the time to launch, and boosts the overall quality of the software.

Q6. What is a Test Automation Platform?
Sample Answer: A test automation platform is a system created to simplify and automate software testing. It works by using pre-written programs and scripts from developers or testers. This platform runs these scripts automatically, reducing the need for manual work. By doing so, it makes the testing process more efficient, accurate, and faster, ensuring more reliable results.

Q7. What is the average number of test cases that can be automated per day?
Sample Answer: The number of test cases that can be automated each day depends on the complexity and length of the test scenarios. For simpler test cases, a QA tester may automate around 2 to 4 scenarios per day. However, for more complex cases that require detailed work, the tester may only be able to automate 1 to 2 test cases daily. This difference arises from the time and effort needed to tackle the more complicated tasks, which can limit the number of scenarios automated in a given day.

Q8. What are the prerequisites of Automation Testing?
Sample Answer: The essential prerequisites for automation testing include the following:

A Stable Build: Before starting automation, it’s important to ensure that the software build is stable, with all core features working correctly. A stable build reduces the chance of test failures due to issues in the software itself, allowing the focus to stay on testing its functionality.
Functionalities to be Tested: Identifying and defining which functionalities need testing is crucial. These should be prioritized based on their importance and complexity. Clearly outlining the functionalities helps in deciding which tests to automate and ensures the testing process targets the most critical areas.
Test Cases for Automated Testing: Test cases need to be well-defined and written for automation. These should cover various scenarios, inputs, and expected outcomes. It’s essential to create test cases that are robust, reusable, and maintainable, ensuring that the automation process remains efficient and effective over time.
Q9. Why use Automation Frameworks?
Sample Answer: Automation frameworks offer several key benefits, such as enabling code reusability across different test scenarios. This helps reduce redundancy and increases efficiency. They also support the creation of test scripts in a consistent, standardized format, promoting uniformity and better collaboration among team members. 

By using automation frameworks, teams can easily implement continuous testing throughout the development process, ensuring that the code and delivery are consistently evaluated. This approach not only enhances software quality but also speeds up the detection and resolution of issues.

Q10. What is an Automated Test Script?
Sample Answer: Automated test scripts are programs created to run specific tasks, like setting up, executing, and validating test cases, all without manual involvement. These scripts help streamline the testing process by performing tasks automatically, ensuring that tests are run consistently and accurately. 

By using automated test scripts, companies can save time, reduce human error, and improve overall efficiency. These scripts also serve as useful documentation, providing a clear record of the software’s functionality and how it meets its requirements.

TCS Automation Testing Interview Questions and Answers For Mid-level Candidates
If you’re a mid-level candidate preparing for a TCS automation testing interview, it’s important to focus on key concepts like Selenium frameworks, TestNG, and tools like JIRA. You should also be ready to discuss test scenarios, debugging techniques, and how you approach automation strategies in real-world projects. To help you get started, we’ve compiled commonly asked TCS automation testing interview questions and answers for mid-level candidates.

Q11. What is TestNG in Selenium?
Sample Answer: TestNG is a powerful testing framework used with Selenium to improve the testing process. It offers flexibility in configuring tests, grouping them efficiently, and supporting data-driven testing. TestNG automatically generates detailed reports, making it easier to analyze test results. 

It allows for parameterization, giving greater customization, and uses annotations for easy test management. Additionally, TestNG supports running tests in parallel, saving time, and providing comprehensive logging features, which help with debugging and improving test analysis.

Q12. Should one automate all testing?
Sample Answer: While automated testing can save time and effort, it cannot replace every type of testing. Some methods, like user interface (UI), accessibility, and usability testing, require human involvement due to their dependence on subjective evaluation, real-world context, and user experience insights. 

Human testers assess things like design, accessibility, and satisfaction—areas where automation is limited. These human perspectives ensure that the software is both functional and user-friendly, providing a more thorough and context-aware evaluation.

Q13. List some best practices in Test Automation.
Sample Answer: Here are some of the best practices for test automation:

Develop an Automation Testing Plan: Create a detailed plan that outlines the strategy for selecting test cases suitable for automation and the approach to implementing them.
Determine Automatable Test Cases: Evaluate which test cases should be automated, understanding that not all tests are suitable for automation.
Start Testing Early and Test Often: Begin testing as early as possible in the development process and run tests frequently to catch defects early.
Generate Robust Test Data: Carefully design test data that covers a wide range of scenarios, including edge cases and boundary conditions.
Choose the Right Tools and Frameworks: Select automation tools and frameworks that are compatible with the technology stack of your application and are regularly updated to support the latest developments.
Q14. What is Cross-browser Testing?
Sample Answer: Cross-browser testing ensures that web applications work properly across different browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. It checks that the functionality, layout, and performance remain consistent regardless of the browser type or version. This testing process helps identify and fix inconsistencies, ensuring a smooth and consistent user experience across various devices. 

Tools like Sauce Labs, Browsershots, Browsera, and Selenium Box make it easier to detect layout or scripting issues, improving the application’s reliability in different browsing environments.

Q15. What is the Test Automation Pyramid?
Sample Answer: The Test Automation Pyramid, or Testing Pyramid, is a structured approach for incorporating different types of tests into automated testing. It organizes and prioritizes tests to improve efficiency and reliability. The pyramid’s purpose is to provide quick feedback, helping teams quickly identify if recent code changes have affected existing features. 

By organizing tests effectively, this method reduces debugging time, speeds up issue detection during updates, and ensures high-quality code throughout development.

Q16. How do you verify the results of your automated tests? 
Sample Answer: These are the strategies that I follow to verify the results of the automated test:

Assertions: Leverage assertions to validate expected results during script execution. They help confirm that the system behaves as anticipated under specific conditions.
Verification Points: Use verification points strategically within scripts to evaluate key data points or system states. These checkpoints ensure critical functionality aligns with requirements.
Manual Review: Conduct a thorough manual review of logs and reports to identify discrepancies and confirm precision. This step complements automated checks by providing a human perspective to catch subtle issues that might be overlooked.
Q17. What are the risks associated with Automated Testing?
Sample Answer: Here are some risks to consider with automated testing:

Unrealistic Expectations: Automation tools cannot simplify complex testing problems. Expecting them to do so can lead to inefficiencies and unmet goals.
Vendor Issues: Free tools might eventually require a paid license, making it difficult to keep automation tools up-to-date. This can cause compatibility and support issues as the software testing platform evolves.
Maintainability of Test Scripts: It’s essential to design maintainable, modular, and robust frameworks. This ensures test scripts and data can be reused effectively, reducing the risk of poor maintainability.
Underestimating the Need for Manual Testing: Not all tests can be automated. Over-reliance on automation can lead to the “Pesticide Paradox,” where repetitive automated tests miss new issues that require manual intervention.
Q18. Is automated testing making manual testing obsolete?
Sample Answer: Automated testing does not replace manual testing. While automation helps with tasks like regression testing and repetitive checks, areas like usability and accessibility testing still require human input. Automation can handle predictable tasks but cannot replicate the judgment, intuition, and subjective analysis needed in manual testing.

Q19. What is UI Testing?
Sample Answer: UI Testing, or User Interface Testing, ensures that an application’s interface is user-friendly, intuitive, and meets user needs. It checks UI elements like layout, colors, fonts, text size, and overall visual appeal for clarity, accessibility, and responsiveness. The goal is to simulate real-world interactions and verify that users can perform tasks easily, ensuring both technical accuracy and a seamless user experience.

Q20. What is Protractor?
Sample Answer: Protractor is an automation testing framework built with NodeJS, specifically designed for end-to-end testing of web applications, especially those using AngularJS. It supports both Angular and non-Angular apps and provides thorough testing across web platforms. 

Protractor is particularly useful for AngularJS applications but can also handle regression tests for standard web applications. A key feature is its ability to automatically proceed to the next test step once a webpage has completed pending tasks or asynchronous operations, ensuring smooth and efficient testing.

TCS Automation Testing Interview Questions and Answers For Experienced Candidates
For experienced candidates, TCS automation testing interviews often dive into advanced topics such as frameworks, scripting, and debugging. You should be prepared to tackle questions on real-world problem-solving, integration testing, and optimizing automation processes. Demonstrating your expertise and ability to handle complex scenarios is key. To help you prepare, here are commonly asked TCS automation testing interview questions and answers tailored for experienced professionals.

Q21. Is Automation Testing a Black box testing or White box Testing technique?
Sample Answer: Automation testing is primarily associated with black-box testing. In black-box testing, the focus is on evaluating the application’s functionality based on its external behavior without needing to understand the internal code or logic. 

Automation scripts are created to simulate user interactions and check the application’s behavior, ensuring that it performs as expected. It doesn’t require insight into the source code, making it a black-box technique focused on external outputs rather than internal structures.

Q22. What is Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery?
Sample Answer: Continuous Integration (CI) is the practice where developers frequently integrate their code changes into a shared repository multiple times a day. This process helps keep the codebase up-to-date and highlights integration issues quickly, promoting collaboration among team members.

Continuous Delivery (CD) takes CI a step further by automating the process of testing, building, and deploying code to non-production environments. It ensures that every change is thoroughly tested, meets quality standards, and is always ready to be deployed, making the application more reliable and efficient for updates.

Q23. Why do we need Cross-Browser testing?
Sample Answer: Cross-browser testing ensures that web applications perform consistently and deliver a seamless user experience across different browsers, devices, and operating systems. It verifies that the design, functionality, and usability remain the same on browsers like Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. 

This testing process prevents issues such as glitches or layout inconsistencies, ensuring that users have a reliable and smooth experience, no matter their browser or device. It is essential for accessibility and user satisfaction.

Q24. List the main steps in the lifecycle of Automation Testing.
Sample Answer: The main steps in the automation testing lifecycle are:

Define the scope of test automation: Determine which modules and test cases are suitable for automation and how the automation will be implemented.
Select the appropriate automation tool: Choose the right testing tool based on the application’s needs. Common tools include Selenium, Appium, and Cucumber.
Plan, design, and strategize: Develop a strategy for the automation process, including detailed planning and design of test cases.
Set up the test environment: Configure the environment where the automation scripts will run, ensuring everything is ready for execution.
Execute the test scripts: Run the automation scripts and monitor the execution to ensure that they work as expected.
Analyze and maintain: Review the test results, address any issues, and maintain the test scripts as the application evolves.
Q25. What are some popular tools you would use for Automation Testing?
Sample Answer: Here are some popular tools for automation testing:

Selenium: An open-source tool suite for web application automation, including Selenium WebDriver, Grid, and IDE.
Katalon: A versatile platform supporting web, API, desktop, and mobile app testing. It offers both manual and automated test design options.
Appium: An open-source tool for automating mobile apps, supporting both Android and iOS platforms.
TestComplete: A functional UI testing tool that supports web, desktop, and mobile testing with multiple programming languages like Python and C++.
Cypress: A JavaScript-based tool for end-to-end testing, that integrates directly with the browser and CI/CD tools.
Pro Tip: Boost your preparation for TCS automation testing interview questions by enrolling in a dedicated course. Check out Internshala’s ‘How to ace a coding interview course’ which is designed to equip you with the skills and confidence needed to excel in your job interview.

Q26. What is a Modular Testing Framework?
Sample Answer: A modular testing framework divides the application under test into smaller, self-contained units called modules. Each module has its specific test script to validate its functionality. These individual test scripts are then integrated into larger test scenarios for comprehensive testing. 

The modular approach promotes script reuse, as test scripts for one module can be reused in multiple scenarios. This framework reduces the effort in creating new test cases and simplifies maintenance since only the affected module and its associated scripts need to be updated when changes occur in the application.

Q27. What is Data-Driven Testing?
Sample Answer: Data-driven testing is a testing methodology where the test data is separated from the test scripts. The test data is stored in external sources, such as databases or tables, allowing the same test script to be executed with different inputs. This enables testers to create more efficient and reusable test cases. 

For each data input, the same test is executed, and the results are recorded. This approach makes it easier to run tests on various scenarios, ensuring broader coverage and improving the efficiency and scalability of the testing process.

Q28. What is a Keyword-Driven Testing Framework?
Sample Answer: In a keyword-driven testing framework, test cases are organized into components like test steps, objects, actions, and required data. A predefined set of keywords represents actions and inputs for each test case. These keywords are mapped to corresponding actions, making the test case design more structured and reusable. 

The framework is ideal for both technical and non-technical testers, as it allows for easy understanding and maintenance. The use of keywords makes the test case creation process more systematic and efficient, while also simplifying updates and reusability.

Q29. What is Hybrid Testing Framework?
Sample Answer: The hybrid testing framework combines the benefits of both data-driven and keyword-driven testing approaches, offering a more flexible and comprehensive solution. It is ideal for manual testers without programming expertise, as it allows them to use predefined keywords, test data, and an object repository. This simplifies the process, enabling testers to create and execute test cases easily without writing code, thus making testing more accessible while ensuring its efficiency and effectiveness.

Q30. What is Robot Framework?
Sample Answer: The Robot Framework is an open-source automation tool primarily used for acceptance testing and acceptance-test-driven development (ATDD). It supports various test approaches, such as data-driven, keyword-driven, and behavior-driven development (BDD), enabling users to create structured and flexible test cases. 

Its compatibility with external libraries and open-source tools enhances its automation capabilities. Test cases are written in a keyword-driven style and organized in a tabular format, making them easy to read. The Selenium Library is commonly integrated for web application testing.